>> Steve Kinney: This is a course
on deploying like rich client-side
applications on AWS.
And this starts from like
how we did it at SendGrid.
So, I'll tell you a little bit
about the problem that we had.
And then I'll tell you about the solution
and then we'll spend the next little
bit together getting to that solution
together to figure out how we did it.
Cuz the really interesting part is the
same architecture that we use for hosting,
building and deploying a application that
makes about $20 million dollars a year
is relatively easy for you to get going
for pretty much any project that you have.
So it's the same thing that works for
my personal homepage, or something along
those lines, can also scale all the way
up to a large enterprise application.
So let's talk a little bit
about the problem that we had.
The original version of our site,
the version still in production today,
was backed originally by a Ruby on
Rails back-end sitting in a data
center we call it NDW,
which stands for the nearest airport.
So somewhere in Chicago, I don't actually
know the address of the data center,
because it's not my job.
So the problem was a few steps.
One is that all requests had to go to
Chicago, which means if you were in
Sydney, you still had to make
a request to our server in Chicago.
If you were in Ireland,
the same case, right?
If you're in Mumbai,
you had to make a request to Chicago.
It also meant that every single time that
we wanted to deploy our application,
let's say, it was a React application
on top of this Rail server.
Originally, two versions of
the application ago, it was jQuery and
CoffeeScript served by the asset pipeline.
The newer version was a React app kind
of sitting on top of the Rails app and
making Ajax calls to get the data.
So we usually worked on
the React application
separately from the Rails application.
And for the most part, the number of
changes we would make to the client-side
React application was in
the order of magnitude of
honestly 100 times more common than
us changing the Rails code base.
So we had to deploy the Rails app every
single time we made a client-side code
change, right?
This involved building it,
all sorts of fun Docker,
Linux stuff, it took a really long time.
And it wasn't lost on us that
we didn't need to be doing that.
So the first thing we did was take a lot
of the process we're gonna talk about
today and take our JavaScript and
our CSS and host it on AWS.
The index.HTML page was still,
at that point, hosted from Rails.
So we didn't solve all the problems.
But we're working on a new version of the
application where even the index.HTML page
is built by web pack, put onto S3,
fronted by CloudFront, so on and so forth.
And that's gonna be what
we're talking about today.
So we got halfway with
our current architecture.
We're going all the way as we kind
of move the entire company onto AWS.
Cool, so
just to show you some of the metrics.
This is basically the only two
changes we had made to the app
to get this kind of performance change,
performance gains really,
is implement code
splitting on a page level.
So, if you think about, think of Twitter
has that kinda navigation on top.
Facebook has the navigation along
the side, we had one as well.
So we basically code split based
on each nav item in our sidebar.
And then the other part was to put
it on S3 fronted by CloudFront and
distribute it around the world, right?
And we're gonna talk about how to do that.
And we'll talk about what that
actually means in a second.
But from Denver, going to Chicago,
we saw performance gains.
But if you look as you get further and
further away from Denver,
the performance gains
are increasingly dramatic.
So users in Sydney saw a 1300% increase
in time to first meaningful byte, right?
So that's gonna be what we look at today,
and we'll see how you can do this.
And for our $20 million a year
application, it costs about $13 a month.
For a personal website, you're looking
at more along the lines of $0.60,
and 50 of those cents come from Route 53,
right?
So that's a static cost,
so the actual S3 and
CloudFront parts are going to run
you about a dime a month, right?
Unless you're like me and spin up a whole
bunch of them as you're preparing for
a workshop, and forget to shut them off.
That's a different story for
a different day, cool.
This is gonna be the app that we use.
It is actually a hollowed out version
of our production application, right?
Taking away all the things that will
get me a long talk with legal, but
keeping the web pack, config and
stuff along those lines.
And what's important here is that
it does have client-side routing.
It does have lazy loading of inputs,
right?
So it's supposed to be more of a real
app that's not gonna get me in trouble.
But not just a single HTML page,
cuz then there's really
interesting problems with client-side
routing and not breaking the web.
We will fight that battle around
three to four times today, and
only at the very end of
the workshop actually win.
There's a different set of trade-offs that
we have to make through the entire way.
And we'll do this, and
then we'll have this other bad part to it.
So, it's got enough, it's got all the
hallmarks of a real application, will not
be overwhelming and contain too much of
my company's intellectual property, cool.
Yep, so all the things, the big difference
is obviously, it's a lot smaller.
Cuz it's not a large application for
creating HTML emails.
And I switched it back to
JavaScript instead of TypeScript.
So it was a kinda major difference for
the actual shell around the application
is like I took the application out.
And I didn't make us all
learn TypeScript today.
But you should learn TypeScript,
cuz it's great.
So we're gonna build the infrastructure
that we have at SendGrid.
We will be able to do it all together
pretty much the exact same way that we
have it, right,
over the course of a day today.
And it's actually a lot faster if there
wasn't somebody walking you through and
explaining everything step by step, right?
So if you were to go sit down and try to
do this on your application tomorrow, you
could probably knock it out in a morning,
right, which is kind of incredible, right?
If you think about how long it would
take to provision a VPS server,
it's not gonna take you a morning,
trust me, I know.
So, what are we gonna cover?
We are gonna cover how to get our
single-page application hosted on AWS
distributed around the world,
secured with SSL.
So it's an HTTPS domain,
instead of just HTTP.
We'll have that automatically
deployed with CI/CD.
So every time you merge to master,
it will automatically deploy.
Cuz I don't like manually deploying,
it's not fun for me.
And finally we will add a little
bit of ability to dynamically
respond to requests.
And we'll talk a little bit more about
what that means when we get there.
What we're not going to cover,
we're not gonna cover servers, right?
This is about getting a client-side
application out the door.
Also not gonna talk about serverless.
Because there's a really great
Frontend Masters course on that,
where Scott goes into the deep detail
on how to work with AWS Lambda.
So we have kind of supplementary or
additional courses.
If any of that stuff becomes
really interesting to you,
we will talk a little bit about
using Lambdas to program our CDN.
And that's a little bit what I talked
about with things being dynamic.